Welcome, boys and girls, to a sample freestyle job demo.
So let's say you have this repository called Lambda and it will work with any GitHub repository.
You don't have to select this one.
And what we want to do is get this repository inside our Jenkins and maybe you want to display content
or certain files.
So for this case, I want to display the content of the read me file.
So let's go back to Jenkins and create a free style job.
All right.
To create a free style job, click new item.
I'm going to name this sample freestyle job to select free style project click.
Okay.
So under source code management, select git.
And if you don't have to do anything with Git, then of course you don't have to select this step and
then go back to your repository, click code and get the https url.
Go back to the Jenkins job.
Put the repository while at this repository is public.
So I don't need to put credentials.
But if your repository is private, you do need to select appropriate credentials.
Okay.
I'm going to keep the brand specifiers as master because this is a older repository of me.
So you could see the main branch is still named as master.
And if I scroll down from this add build step, I'm going to select Execute Shell and I'm going to run
Cat Command read me Dot MD.
So basically this step is copying over the content of this repository.
And then on the build step, I am executing the shell command which is playing the content of the read
me file and we can put another execute shell just for fun.
We could say echo.
Hello from freestyle Jenkins job.
I'm not going to select any post build actions, so post build action you can use to trigger other Jenkins
jobs.
But we are going to learn all about how to trigger upstream downstream jobs, how to pass parameters,
all that stuff in a later lecture.
All right, click Save and then click Build Now.
It's already run.
So click this click console output or so the git step brought in the repository and then I'm doing cat
to read me --.
And here it's displaying the rhythmic file and on the next step it's showing.
Hello from Freestyle Jenkins job.
Another thing to mention is the options that you see under this build.
It will change based on what plugins you add.
For example, I installed Ansible plugins.
You will see something like invoke Ansible playbook.
So as you add more plugins and more options will appear here.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and gals in the next lecture by.